Judging Criteria for a Photo Contest:

    Marketability/Commercial Appeal
    Newsworthiness
    Inspirational Power
    Expression of Theme
    Usage of Brand to Reinforce Theme
    Overall Impression/Impact
    Current/Potential Social Impact
    Level of Detail
    Inspiration to Others
    Wow! Factor
    Memorable
    Technical Execution
    Visual Appeal
    Artistic Merit

criteria #2
Technical criteria
    Exposure Focus/sharpness 
    Depth of field 
    Colour and/or tonal rendition 
    Contrast 
    Lighting
Visual and aesthetic criteria 
    Framing and choice of viewpoint 
    Background 
    Design elements and principles 
    Appropriate application of photographic and/or manipulative techniques 
    Visual impact
Content 
    Information 
    Emotion 
    Mood 
    Feeling 
    Denotative and connotative content, symbolism, metaphor 
    Meaning, studium and punctum 
    Communication through the language of photography and visual art 
    The moment 
    Relevance 
    Subject impact
Viewer’s response 
    Visual 
    Aesthetic 
    Intellectual 
    Emotional 
    Excitement 
    Interest
General characteristics 
    Originality 
    Style 
    Context 
    Photographic vision 
    Empathy 
    Insight 
    Validity 

criteria #3
Judges will review digital submissions received from students. Photographs will be judged on Impact, Creativity, Composition, and Story Telling of the photograph. Each category will be judged on a point system worth 25 points.

Impact –  the sense one gets upon viewing an image for the first time. Compelling images evoke laughter, sadness, anger, pride, wonder or another intense emotion. The initial impact should evoke a sense of what agricultural education is.

Creativity – the original, fresh, and external expression of the imagination of the maker by using the medium to convey an idea, message or thought.

Composition –  important to the design of an image, bringing all of the visual elements together in concert to express the purpose of the image. Proper composition holds the viewer in the image and prompts the viewer to look where the creator intends. Effective composition can be pleasing or disturbing, depending on the intent of the image maker.

Story Telling – refers to the image’s ability to evoke imagination in what is happening in the photograph. Photographs should tell a story about what agricultural education means to you


criteria #4
